---
title: "My 2017"
excerpt: "Embrace 2018"
categories:
  - articles
tags:
  - Life
---

Well, it is my first time to write annual self-appraisal on my blog. Here is what I have got and what I am going to do.

## Work


* I have contributed three projects to Novogene: MSI algorithm, TMB algorithm and ACMG auto-interpretation pipeline.
* The first half year is for MSI and TMB, and the latter half year is for IVD project.

## Coding

* Wrote a project exceeding 3000-line codes, which enables me to handle relatively complex system.
* Finished reconstructing several of my old projects using python.
* Learned basic grammar of [Scala](https://www.scala-lang.org/).


## Life

* My wife bought me a MacBook Pro 13-Inch(2017), which I used to write this article. It is necessary to have effective tools to do good work.
* My cooking skill improves a lot, especially Stir-fried Shredded Pork with Green Pepper.
* Have read six books, which enlightened me most is [*Stories about Ming Dynasty*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stories_about_Ming_Dynasty). 
* Got my master diploma from [AMMS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academy_of_Military_Medical_Sciences).
* Exercise once per week.


---

## 2018

In 2018, I still hold the opinion that scientific writing and coding are the most important skills for a bioinformatician. Therefore, my flags for 2018 are:

* Reconstruct *one* of my projects using scala
* Finish *a* machine learning project on Kaggle
* Study English *30* minutes per day
* Read *10* books
* Exercise *three* times per week, which is twice than what I have done in 2017
* Spare average *2* hours per day on the family

**Embrace 2018!**


